All right, so we have one more
section here, so that's part three.
So we've got them lined
up next to each other.
So the last part here is
getting these cells to overlap.
So let's go through that now,
and then I'm gonna have you try it
to add the additional projects.
Okay, so now we are gonna use Grid
to get these projects to overlap.
So, as you see here in our diagram,
as you know,
right now we have two columns
that are next to each other,
somehow, we need to get these
two things to overlap in space.
So that we get that very cool effect.
So the question is,
how much overlap do you want?
And as you can see from our diagram,
we want a little bit of overlap.
We don't want an excessive amount because
then we'll cover up the picture entirely.
We don't want to do that.
But we want enough that we go, wow,
you got an overlap going on there,
how cool is that?
All right, so
let's go back to revisit what we did
here with our grid template columns.
So right now we have this split
into just two columns on this page.
One column, we have the image,
one column, we have our text.
But we can have as many
columns as we want.
If we wanted to have 100 columns
on this page, we could do that.
It's actually really easy to do with grid,
the syntax you can do one of two ways.
You can either say 1FR times 100 [LAUGH]
just let it keep on going forever.
Or, you can use the shorthand
syntax which says simply
repeat something like 100, 1FR.
So now I have 100 columns.
There we go, and my image and my text
are assigned to the first two columns.
That's what you're seeing there [LAUGH]
not quite what we really had in mind.
So I'm actually gonna reduce that again,
just to ten.
Let's just work with ten columns.
Now by default, what grid will do,
is it tries very hard to think for you.
It's a thinking about well, you've got
ten columns, and you have two children.
So I'm gonna put the first child in the
first column and I'll put the second child
in the second column and
then I guess you have eight empty columns.
[APPLAUSE] Have a nice day says CSS grid.
Well, that's not exactly
what we had in mind.
What we'd really like to have happen is,
sort of a 40 60 split.
We'd like to have the image take up
about four of those columns, and
we'd like to have the text take
up about six of those columns.
Actually, well, a little bit more right
seven, seven columns, eight columns, so
that it overlaps that image.
And so how are we going to go about
doing that and telling grid what to do?
Well, that comes into some
additional syntax here.
So we've told the Article to do this, so
now what we'll do is we'll say for
the project's image.
Now we have to tell it what
columns to display in, so
let me give you the syntax and
then I'll explain it to you.
So I'm going to say grid column, so
grid column1/6, what does that mean?
If you imagine a series of boxes on the
page, okay, so here we are on the page.
This is line number one outside of
everything the very far left side of
the screen that's line number one.
Line number two is happening,
let's see, this is the image.
So line number two is
happening in the image,
line three is happening in the image,
line four is happening in the image,
line five is happening in the image.
Line six is happening right here
between the image and the text.
So we're sort of counting over,
so we count like humans,
we don't start with zero,
we start with one, and
we're starting over here on
the far left side of the screen.
So we go 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and
then that's where those numbers come from.
Let's do the same thing
then with our text, and for
the text,
we'll say our grid column is 5/11.
So since we're going 5,
6, 7, 8, 9,10,11, right?
We're overlapping that
center column there.
So the image is gonna stretch
into that one column and
now we have the text
stretching into that column.
But grid again,
trying to be helpful but not.
Puts these now on two
separate rows because
you actually do have
an overlap here in the middle.
And by default grid says,
you made a mistake, well,
let me help you with that I'll just put
all of that stuff into another row.
That's what's happening here, so
we have our image we have our
text down here in the second row.
So now we need to tell them no, I want
both of those things in the same row.
So the way we do that grid-row: 1/2,
right?
We're gonna start at the top of
the screen, that's line number one.
Line number two was the one after
that row, so one to two And
we're gonna say that again for
the text, grid-row: 1/2.
You did it, look at that they overlap,
you've put them all into the same row,
you've given it some number of columns.
That was me playing around with
however many columns might work here,
you might find this works
just fine with 12 columns or
maybe you can get away with only
using 3 columns or whatever.
But we managed to get everything
to overlap here, just like that.
How cool is that?
You didn't believe you could do
this at the start of the course but
here you are, you made it happen.
And so now as we narrow up the screen
here, this is looking pretty good,
until we get to our break point and then
things stack on top of each other, okay?
Before that, there they are next to
each other and looking all right.
How amazing is that?